# vault-resource
Hashicorp Vault Resource for Concourse.

**Important:** Currently, the vault-resource operates on the KV Secret Engine v1 **ONLY**.


## Source Configuration

- `url`: *Required*

   URL of Vault
- `role_id`: *Required*

   This is the approle id.
   The role_id can be obtained by running `vault read auth/approle/<my-role>/role-id`
- `secret_id`: *Required*

   This is the secret id of the approle.
   The secret_id can be obtained by running `vault write -f auth/approle/role/<my-role>/secret-id`
- `path`: *Required*

   The path of the secret in vault. For example, `/secret/ci/my-secret`
- `tarball`: *Optional*

   This is a boolean value and defaults to `false`. See the behavior for more details.
   This feature was added so that directories with secrets like certs, keys
and other sensitive information can be stored easily in vault. For example,
secrets generated by [bosh-bootloader][bosh-bootloader].

- `ca_cert`: *Optional* 

   The CA certificate of the Vault server can be provided if you are working with a self-signed CA Vault server. 
   The certificate contents can be provided as a source variable and will be written to file for the Vault client to use.  

## Example

```
resource_types:
- name: vault
  type: docker-image
  source:
    repository: wfernandes/vault-resource
    tag: latest

resources:
- name: vault-datadog-api-key
  type: vault
  source:
    url: ((vault.url))
    role_id: ((vault.role_id))
    secret_id: ((vault.secret_id))
    path: /secret/ci/datadog-api-key
```

Fetch a secret,

```
plan:
- get: team-datadog-api-key
  trigger: true
```

Push a secret,

```
- put: vault-datadog-api-key
  params:
    data: vault-test-output
```

See [tests/pipeline.yml][test-pipeline] for a full example.

## Behavior

- *check*:

  Reports the sha256 hash of the contents of the secret as the version. That
is, for the secret `/secret/ci/my-secret` there is a key/value pair `foo=bar`,
the version will be the `sha256sum` hash of the json payload `{"foo":"bar}`.
This is done because currently, this resource only supports version 1 of the
KV secret engine.

- *in*:

  If `tarball: false`,

  It puts the value of each key in a separate file within the destination
directory. So if the secret had the following contents in json format,
  ```json
  {
	"foo": "bar",
    "some/path/key": "some-value"
  }
  ```
  The destination directory would contain a file called `foo` with the
contents of `bar` and another file at the path of `some/path/key` containing
the value of `some-value`.

  If `tarball: true`,

  It expects a key called `tarball` and it extracts the contents of the
tarball within the destination directory.
- *out*:

  If `tarball: false`,

  It converts each file and its contents into key/value pair respectively. For
example, if the `path: secret/ci/my-secret` and the source directory contains
the following structure,

  ```
  .
  ├── foo
  └── some
    └── path
        └── to
            └── secret
                └── ca.crt
  ```
  Then the keys put under `secret/ci/my-secret` would be `foo` and
`some/path/to/secret/ca.crt` with the contents of the file as the values.

  If `tarball: true`,

  It `tar`'s up all the contents of the source directory and puts it under the
key `tarball`.

[bosh-bootloader]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/bosh-bootloader#managing-state
[test-pipeline]: tests/pipeline.yml
